.TH IJ 1 "January 10, 2026" "1.0" "Interstitial Journaling Tool"
.SH NAME
ij \- Interstitial Journaling CLI Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ij
[\fImessage\fR]
.br
.B echo "message" | ij
.br
.B ij
[\fB\-s\fR \fIkeyword\fR]
.br
.B ij
[\fB\-e\fR]
.br
.B ij
[\fB\-l\fR \fIn\fR]
.br
.B ij
[\fB\-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ij
is a CLI tool designed to record thoughts, achievements, and next actions during work transitions (interstitial) with minimal friction. It automatically handles daily log files formatted in Markdown.

When invoked without arguments and without standard input, it displays the log entries for the current day.

It can also read the message from standard input (pipe), which is useful for long messages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \fImessage\fR
If a message argument is provided, it is appended to today's log file with the current timestamp.
.TP
.B Standard Input
If no arguments are provided and standard input is available, the content is read and appended to today's log file.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-search " \fIkeyword\fR"
Search for \fIkeyword\fR across all log files.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-edit
Open today's log file in the default editor.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list-recent " \fIn\fR"
Show logs for the recent \fIn\fR days.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B IJ_LOG_DIR
Specifies the directory where log files are stored. Defaults to \fI~/.ij_logs\fR.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Specifies the text editor to use when the \fB\-e\fR option is invoked. Defaults to \fInano\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Log a completed task:
.B ij "Finished the report."
.TP
Search for logs about a meeting:
.B ij -s "meeting"
.TP
View logs from the last 3 days:
.B ij -l 3
.SH AUTHOR
Generated by Gemini CLI.
